=====================
django-pgfields 0.9.2
=====================

Welcome to django-pgfields 0.9.2!

Overview
--------

This release of django-pgfields contains the following major features:

* `South Support <#south-support>`_
* `JSON Field <#json-field>`_


Features
--------

South Support
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

django-pgfields 0.9.2 adds out-of-the-box support for South_, the popular
migrations application for Django. With this release, all fields
provided by django-pgfields are given appropriate introspection rules for
South.

This also applies to any subclasses of ``CompositeField``, which are given
automatic introspection rules. This does *not* examine your subclass,
however, so it is your responsibility to `add introspection rules`_ if your
subclass takes constructor arguments.

.. note::
    
    South migrations using ArrayField were broken in django-pgfields 0.9.2;
    while the initial migration including the ArrayField would run,
    subsequent migrations would not. This has been corrected and a subsequent
    release, django-pgfields 0.9.2.1, issued.

.. _South: http://south.aeracode.org/
.. _add introspection rules: http://south.readthedocs.org/en/latest/customfields.html#rules


JSON Field
~~~~~~~~~~

django-pgfields 0.9.2 adds a new field for storing JSON in the database.
The new JSONField is capable of taking Python objects that serialize into
JSON (such as lists, dicts, booleans, and strings) and storing the
JSON representation.

This feature makes use of the new JSON data type introduced in PostgreSQL
9.2. On earlier versions of PostgreSQL, it will fall back to the text type.

More information is available on the :doc:`Fields <../fields>`
documentation page.
